---
title: Calculus
date: 2019-08-08 11:33:00 +0800
categories: [Blogging, Demo]
tags: [typography]
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
---

Calculus is the fundamental building block of many aspects of math, physics, etc. It is important to review and deeply understand the content/concepts under its wide-ranging umbrella

I will review [3Blue1Brown’s series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDMsr9K-rj53DwVRMYO3t5Yr) as well as ensure I can do whatever practical math I believe is useful.

As I go along, I will structure my notes in such a way that I can review the important concepts and retain all the learnings that I gather. This likely means making blog posts that explain concepts that I review.

For each video/concept
1. Watch the video
2. Rewrite content in my own words
3. (where practical) Look at practical exercises + ensure know how to solve
4. (where practical) Write out practical exerises + explanation of how to solve in my own words
5. Add link to page to the section below this
7. Create bullet points / flash cards for easy review/retention!!!!

Sections with notes (links to Obsidian Pages)


1. [Derivative](obsidian://open?vault=Obsidian%20Vault&file=Learning%2FMath%2FCalculus%2F1-%20Derivative)
2. Exponentials
3. Implicit Differentiation
4. Limits + L’Hopitals + Epsilon Delta
5. Integrals
6. Taylor’s Series

Calculus, Revisited

It has been a great many years since I’ve formally studied Calculus- or any math at all for that matter. Perhaps that is why it was such a delight to revisit the material. Truly, I felt a great deal of positive nostalgia as I revisited this material.  

Calculus, at its essence, is the branch of mathematics concerned with change and motion.

It all hinges on the concept of the derivative.

# Derivative

To develop an intuitive understanding for the derivative, let’s imagine that you are traveling in a car down a road such that your position at any time is governed by d = f(t)
Let’s additionally plot your velocity at any given time with the function v = g(t)

The intuition behind this concept, velocity, is quite readily apparent, right? It’s just the speed at which you are going in the forward direction at any given time t. 

But wait. How is it possible to have a speed you are going at the speific moment in time t? t is an instant in time, and speed is, by definition measured over time.

Well, the way we resolve this seeming paradox is to consider, not the instant t, but a time block around t that approaches 0. We denote this change in time as dt.

**Specific Derivatives**

Now that we understand the concept of t, let us develop some intuition for the common shorthands for calculating the derivatives to equations

$x^2$
$x^3$

You may be noticing a a pattern. Indeed, whenever we consider x to any degree, we can rest assured that the dx’s past the first will disappear. 

In case I haven’t sufficiently convined you of this fact, let us just imagine that we have x^n where n is a huge number. Let us find the derivative.
We know the derivative will be $x^n - (x+dx)^n$ , so let’s go ahead and calculate $(x+dx)^n$. 
We can start multiplying out all the factors, getting $x^n + (n-1)x^{n-1}dx + (n-2)x^{n-2}dx^2 + \ldots$ but wait! Remeber what we said about dx! once we have dx with a power greater than 1, we can consider it neglibeble. And Thus, we can see that the derivative will be $x^n - x^n + (n-1)x^{n-1}dx$ which will equal $(n-1)x^{n-1}dx$. 
And just like that, we have our general equation for $\frac{df}{dx}x^n = (n-1)x^{n-1}